This is a manual testing guide for the Moodle groupdistribution
activity.
Unless you know what you are doing, you should execute
these steps in the given order.
The tests expect you to be an  administrator or teacher of the
course,
unless something else is specified.


1. Put the groupdistribution files into the mod/ folder and install
the plugin.
---
Expected: The plugin installs successfully and adds three new
settings. Notice the groupdistribution_maxsize value.

2. Don't modify the settings and press the save button.
---
Expected: The plugin is correctly installed.

3. Find/create a course with zero groups and try to add a
groupdistribution activity to it.
---
Expected: An error message because there are too few groups and
no groupdistribution created.

4. Add one group to the course and repeat the above step.
---
Expected: Same as above.

5. Add another group to the course (so that there are two) and add
groupdistribution activity to it.
---
Expected: A module settings dialogue appears to configure the
groupdistribution activity. The value in the 'Maximum number of
students in group' fields should be equal to the value in the
groupdistribution_maxsize field in the settings dialogue
during installation.
The begin date is now plus one day and the end date is now plus
seven days.

6. Enter a name for the activity and a description. Set the
'Can students rate this group' drop down menus from 'No' to 'Yes'
for both groups.
Then press 'save and display'.
---
Expected: You see a page with the activity's name, description,
begin and end date, a note that you can not yet start the
distribution a button to show a 'ratings table'.
The activity has also been created.

7. Enable guest access for the course and view the groupdistribution as
a guest.
---
Expected: A notification that you can't use the activity as a guest.

8. View the groupdistribution as an enrolled student.
---
Expected: A notification that the rating period has not yet started.

9. Add more groups to the course. Then check the activity's settings
page again.
---
Expected: Students can not rate the new groups, because there is a
'No' instead of a 'Yes'.

10. Set all but one group to 'No' (not rateable) and try to save.
---
Expected: An error message that at least two groups have to be
rateable.

11. Set all groups to 'Yes' (rateable).

12. Change the rating's begin date to a date after the end date and try
to save.
---
Expected: An error message that the dates are not correct appears and
you can not save.

13. Set the begin date to a date before the end date.

14. Put "asdf" into any 'Maximum number of students' field and press
'Save'.
---
Expected: An error message that this is not a number appears and you
can not save.

15. Set the 'Maximum number of students' field to a number.

16. Change a groups description via the groups settings page
(Course Administration > Users > Groups).
---
Expected: The groupdistribution settings page shows the new description.

17. Change a groups description in the groupdistribution settings page
and press save.
---
Expected: The groups description in the groups settings page has the
same value.

18. Put a number into the 'Set maximum number of students for all
groups' and press 'Change all maximum students'.
---
Expected: All 'Maximum number of students' fields have the new value.

19. Put "asdf" into the 'Set maximum number of students for all
groups' and press 'Change all maximum students'.
---
Expected: Nothing happens.

20. In the groupdistribution administration page (Site administration >
Plugins > Activity modules > Groupdistribuion) set the 'Default
maximum number of students per group' to a new value and save.

21. Add a new group to the course and view the groupdistribution
settings page.
---
Expected: The 'Maximum number of students' field of the new group
has the new value from the administration page.

22. Set the begin date of the groupdistribution to a date before
today. Make one group not rateable ('No'). Press 'Save and Display'.
---
Expected: The view page of the groupdistribution looks like before,
but the begin date has the new value.

23. View the course overview as a student enrolled in your test
course.
---
Expected: There are notifications that the rating period has started
and that there have been changes to the groupdistribution
(added group, removed group, group description changed,
rating period changed)

24. View the course as a student enrolled in you test course.
---
Expected: If the recent activity block is enabled, it shows the
same information as the course overview.

25. View the groupdistribution activity as an enrolled student.
---
Expected: A page showing the groups names, descriptions and a
drop down menu for the students rating. The default is 'ok'.
The ratings description hints that the student has not yet rated
this group.

26. As an enrolled student set all ratings to 'impossible' and
click save.
---
Expected: An error message is displayed notifying the student,
that he must give at least two ratings better than 'impossible'.

27. As an enrolled student make at least two better than 'impossible'
ratings and click save.
---
Expected: A notification that the ratings have been saved. The
description next to a rating indicates that the student has already
rated this group and can change his rating at any time.

28. As the course's teacher or administrator view the
groupdistribution. Then click on 'show ratings table'.
---
Expected: A coloured table showing the ratings given in the step
above. The tables first column contains the students name,
a link to his profile and a button to contact him.

29. On the activity's administration page, turn off 'show students
names' and save.
---
Expected: The table from the above step no longer contains the first
the column.

30. Undo the previous step.
---
Expected: The first column is visible again.

31. Log out the enrolled student.

31. On the groupdistribution settings page, make a group rateable
(or create a new group and make it rateable) and make another one
not rateable.
---
Expected: The 'ratings table' no longer contains the not rateable
group. The group that was previously not rateable has the value
'none' instead of a rating in the table.

32. Log in as the enrolled student.
---
Expected: The course overview and recent activity block notify the
student about the removal and addition of a group.

33. View the groupdistribution as the enrolled student.
---
Expected: The student sees the added group but not the removed group.
The description of the rating field indicates that he has not yet
rated the added group.

34. As the teacher or administrator edit the _groupdistribution's_
permissions. Add a role to the capability 'group_teacher'
(for example the role non-editing teacher).
Add someone with _only_ this role to a _rateable_ group. Then view
the groupdistribution as an enrolled student.
---
Expected: The added persons name and picture are now visible in
addition to the groups name and description.

35. Set the end date of the rating period to a date before now.
---
Expected: The enrolled student can no longer give ratings.
The teacher or administrator now sees a summary of the students'
distribution and their ratings and a button 'Start distribution'.

36. Notice the contents of the summary table and click 'Start
distribution'.
---
Expected: After a couple of seconds you are notified that the
distribution has been saved. The contents of the summary table
have changed. Less 'students without a group' and more students
in groups with ratings. The student with ratings are now members
of groups for which they gave ratings (see next steps).

37. Click 'show ratings table'.
---
Expected: The table highlights the group into which a student has
been distributed with a border. (Course Administration > Users >
Groups)

38. Manually add students to a rateable group and one that is not.
Click 'start distribution' again.
---
Expected: The students who were added to the rateable group are no longer
members of that group. The ones added to the not rateable group are
still a members.

39. Make some groups rateable and some not rateable and start another
distribution.
---
Expected: The distribution produces no errors or warnings and only
modifies memberships of rateable groups.

40. Add more students and ratings (change the rating period or modify
the groupdistribution_ratings table (be careful!)). Choose any group
for which every student gives a 'best' rating and set that groups
'maximum size' to a value smaller than the number of students.
Then start the distribution.
---
Expected: The chosen group has as many member _student_ members as
the 'maximum size' field allows.

41. Delete all groups.
---
Expected: The enrolled student is notified during the rating period,
that there are too few groups. The teacher or administrator is
notified on the view page that there are too few groups. The settings
page displays an error that there are too few groups.

42. Delete the groupdistribution activity and the course.
---
Expected: No errors or warnings.
